Jazz Song Currently Stuck In My Head: My Romance
Published on September 12, 2006.
So every once in a while, a jazz standard just gets stuck in my head and I have to listen to every version of it ever.
Right now, that song is “My Romance” by those Rodgers and Hart guys. Some background:
So after hearing of the death of Maynard Ferguson, I decided to listen to some of his music.
Y’know, like pay tribute or something (even though I downloaded the music! Sorry Maynard!).
I put “ Swingin’ For Schuur ” in my car, and when I got to “My Romance” I was like, “yeah!”
I’d heard the song before, but sometimes these things need words for the whole package to click.
I like memorizing words to standards for phrasing issues as well as trivia issues.
One of the things I like about the song is that it’s totally self aware.
Like it’s referencing other love songs that have sappy stuff in ‘em.
Check out the lyrics:
My Romance Rodgers & Hart My romance doesn’t have to have a moon in the sky My romance doesn’t need a blue lagoon standing by No month of may No twinkling stars No hideaway No soft guitar My romance doesn’t need a castle rising in Spain Nor a dance to a constantly surprising refrain Wide awake, I can make my most fantastic dreams come true My romance doesn’t need a thing but you
If I ever sing this song in a karaoke setting or something, I want to replace “soft guitar” with “girl from mars.”
That’ll be so awesome!
The Maynard version is actually a pretty cool arrangement.
The Bill Evans one is also really good.